Hello and welcome in this lecture.
We are going to be creating a main menu level which allows us to just go ahead and hit play and all
we get there is the main menu popping up on our screens created and loaded almost entirely in C++ with
a tiny tiny bit of help from blue print.
So let's find out how that's achievable.
Dive in with me.
So now that we know how to get hold of the class we want to know how to actually use it to load widgets
and display said widgets.
Well the first thing to do is to actually create a way for us to do this function at load time because
the problem here is that if we try and load the widgets in it on our game instance we're actually going
to be too early.
We're going to be there before there is a viewport to show our widgets into.
So this actually needs to be done later on it can be done at a begin play for example.
But there's no big in play in a game instance.
So to simplify things at this point what we're going to do is just use an exact command to load the
level.
Okay fairly straightforward we know how to do these so I'm going to go over to my game instance to create
a new except commands to load the level it's going to be a funnily enough you function exect.
And now on the new line it's going to be a void type load menu.
Brackets and finished off there.
Now let's implement that over in the C++.
Kind of go over in to Game instance not C++.
I'm going to implement it just above my house function.
A copy the you puzzle platform game instance namespace.
Stick that in front of the load menu and put our curly braces.
And we've got ourselves a load menu testing ground.
I'm going to go ahead and build that because it's something we can start getting the build process going
on especially seeing as we change the head of files it tends to make the build slightly longer.
Now what we're going to do in this load menu is create a menu and then attach it to the viewport so
to create menu you may have done this in blue print before there is a create menu create widget node.
However we want to do this in C++ and you may struggle to find this part of the API documentation but
very close to where we had a you widget documentation last time you go up a level.
Then there is you mge Blueprint we go to the blueprint section of the You and G API reference and Amy
here.
We've got the API reference for create widgets and we've got a couple of create widget functions one
which takes in an A player controller one which takes in your world and one which takes in a game instance
that might be useful wouldn't it.
So we're going to go for the game instance version of the API.
And as you can see it's a template function so it takes in the template of the user widget that you're
trying to create.
It also takes in a new class by the way at teh sub object of creates a new class.
In actual fact it's a restricted class but it is in fact a sub class of Sorts of the class.
So you can use it in place of a uclass Pointer quite handy.
Okay so let's have a go at that let's go and create the widget let's follow along with me.
We're going to do create widgets.
Angle brackets for the type it's going to be a user widget.
That is straightforwardly going to give it the owning game which is just a pointer to this current game
instance.
And then we can give it the class that we want it to instantiate with and that class is going to be
our menu class.
Now at this point we should probably have checked but many class is not null before trying to create
its own going to do.
My nul return expansion and it's going to be just not return for many class Kate.
So it will get an error rather than a crash if that goes wrong some occur on the end of the Create line.
And let's see what it's returning is should be returning a use a widget so I can.
Do you use a widget.
Menu equals that.
So now we've got ourselves a menu object that's been created using create widget.
Now why is it complaining.
Let's have a look at that.
Because I didn't make it a you use a widget widgets it wasn't a pointer to a user widget.
Now let's just make sure that the menu was krech successfully created again doing a null read.
Now this might be a little bit overkill.
But I really dont like my editor crashings so I am super paranoid about all the possible null pointers
and you can be too.
So weve got a menu now and we're definitely guaranteed to be not know at this stage because otherwise
we would have returned by now.
So what we can do is we can go ahead and add it to the viewport.
Now you can see that this is part of the use a widget documentation.
It is a function on you use a widget so you can just doesn't take in very many arguments it takes in
a z order.
And I think that's even not a required argument so we can as simple as go menu arrow add to viewport.
Like so semicolon.
And that is going to very simply add the widgets to the visible viewport over the top of what's already
there.
So let's go ahead and build that and give this exact command a try Kate build success.
Let's go over in to a real editor.
And let's load up our game play.
Load up the console and do a load menu.
Tried to execute deprecated command load.
Well I actually wanted to.
Do.
Load menu.
Execute that and running.
We've got our menu over the top of our game.
Now obviously we can't do anything with the input we're going to look at that in the next lecture.
And also we don't really want the main menu just overlaid over the top of the game we're going to want
it in a separate level of its own so that's going to be the subject of your challenge now to set up
a main menu.
So you're creating a main menu level.
I'd like you to use an empty level as the base that I'll be completely dark and black background so
that's perfect and we can spruce things up later on we're going to make a make the load menu function
into a blueprint call a ball.
Because then you want to be loading that menu automatically and you want to be doing that.
A good place is begin play.
So pause the video and have a go at achieving this challenge.
Okay welcome back.
We are going to dive right into this so I'm going up to content.
I'm going to my menu system and I'm this time I'm going to create the map in here because it is a main
menu map it's related to the menu system rather than anything else.
So I'm going to go ahead and add a new let's see new level.
Call it the main menu.
And I'm going to launch that up that blueprint.
Saying the current level as I go as you can see it's completely black which is just what we want.
Next up we want to load a menu into this so to do that I'm going to go to my blueprints menu on the
top toolbar and then go down to open level blueprint.
In open level blueprint I have a big win planeload of which as I suggested is a good place.
So we're going to use the begin plate node.
But first we need to get hold of our game instance I'm going to right click and look for game instance.
Get game instance is what I want and then I'm going to cast that to our specific game instance which
is be I believe let's see platform game encinas no puzzle platforms game instance.
I'm going to put the execution pins hooked up and a success execution pin hooked up and I'm going to
have to create that you function make it a blueprint.
Well let's go back to the seapass plus the game instance.
H.
And to where we have our load many I'm going to change that from being exect to blueprint callable.
Like so let's go ahead and build that.
And that should give us a nice little node in our blueprint graph.
I mean as you can see here we are using the minimum amount of C++ or blueprint possible and the maximum
amount of C++ possible.
But we do still have to use the blueprint sometimes when it is convenient or most convenient such as
the level blueprint.
It's quite quite convenient to use it for.
In that case because the level blueprints very hard to override.
So what we can do now in this game instance is we are going to take that game instance pointer and we
are going to call on it load menu.
Simple as that so there is the success pin automatically got hooked up and that's all the blueprint
we're going to be doing in this lecture.
So let's go ahead and save that and close down the blueprint and try playing.
And they go when we play.
We have our main menu load up.
We still can't click on anything.
Again that's for the next lecture.
But we're one step closer to having a functional and cool working main menu which can replace our lobby.
So patch cells on the back and I'll see you in the next lecture.